Python Lab 2: Writing Python Scripts and the Command Line


- A python script has the .py extension

- It is what is called a "interpreted language". This means that we use the python interpreter to run a python program. The program will interpet our code and tell the computer to do the corresponding actions.


- We run python programs from the command line.


The Command Line
- it may look complex at first, but it is pretty intuitive.
- The command line is simply a text based way of interacting with your computer. Pretty much everything you could do without a command line you can do through the command line.

- When you are in the command line, you can think of always being "somewhere" in your file system. You could be in your Documents folder, your Desktop, your Downloads, some sub-folder of one of these places, or anywhere else.

NOTE: The words "folder" and "directory" are synonymous


- The way we navigate the command line is with some key commands that are fairly straight forward. 

command: cd
    def: change directory, move from where you are to a different directory
 usages: cd /home/zach/Documents
		cd ..
		cd ../..

command: cp
    def: copy, used to copy a file or a folder from one place to another
  usage: cp my_file.txt /home/zach/Documents

command: mv
    def: move, used to move a file or a folder from one place to another
  usage: mv my_file.txt /home/zach/Documents

command: rm
    def: remove/delete, used to delete a file (permanent, does not got to into trash)
  usage: rm my_file.txt

command: ls
    def: list directory, lists all the files in the current directory
  usage: ls


There are thousands of other commands that can be run on the command line, and tons of possibilities. You don't have to become an expert at the command line. But you will need to be a little comfortable with it. Remember, Google is your friend.


- When you install python, you are going to run a python program by calling the python interpreter on the file. 
e.g. python3.7 my_program.py


How to Write a Python Script:

- Python cares a lot about the whitespace in your files, that is what it uses to interpret a lot about your program. For example:

If I have an if statement